The Joe Rogan experience. Gravity. This is one thing.
That I was hooked on gravity. Yes.
I'm always hooked up on gravity. Um, because, uh, as you should be, well,
since we've talked last, I've been reading a lot about it.
And one of the things that confuses me the most is that we don't really
understand what gravity is, but we know it's a facts.
We can measure them. We know how to measure them.
We know what that mass is involved,
but we don't really know what gravity is.
There's a similar question in the book,
but they got a little more philosophical than you just did,
but they both lean philosophical.
It's science can describe how gravity works,
but can they describe why it works? So this is the how,
why duality here and allow me to just answer it from a, how,
why point of view. And then we can apply it to gravity. After I say that, um,
in science,
if we can describe how something works and predict its future behavior,
we claim to understand it. And we move on.
You can ask deeper question about why is there gravity and what is the meaning?
What is the purpose? And go ahead. But I'm good with what I've done.
And I can land a spacecraft on Mars inside of a crater,
in a hole in one using my understanding of gravity. So I'm pretty good with it.
Okay.
So I'm not distracted by the more philosophical side of that.
Why does it work? Okay. Einstein.
So Newton was deeply puzzled by how you can have something called and which he
coined the phrase action at a distance. Okay.
He wrote down the equation that worked. He walked any equation.
Moon goes around the earth, earth grows on the sun,
the moons of Jupiter go around Jupiter. He
accurately described that with his equations of gravity. Okay. He said,
one day,
I think we're going to find some way that they're connecting to each other,
but I don't know what that is right now, but I know my equations work.
He called it spooky. It was spooky to him. That's his word?
Spooky action at a distance. All right. Fast forward,
300 years, 300,
no fast forward two hundred and fifty two hundred thirty years.
Get to Albert Einstein. Um,
gravity is the curvature of space and time.
And you're moving on the curvature of that fabric. That's gravity.
Oh my gosh. Is it even a forge then?
Is it even so there's no need to think of it as an action at a distance
and in a phrase, um, first uttered by I think it was John Archibald Wheeler,
a student of Einstein. And he,
I learned relativity from John Archer boat effect.
That's where I met my wife in relativity class in graduate school. Um,
it's space matter.
Tell space how to curve space tells matter how to move.
It moves on the curvature of space. You don't need an action at a distance.
There is no action. It knows it can't do anything else, but do that.
It's like you have a funnel and you take a ball and you roll it on the funnel.
The ball can only do what that funnel tells it to do.
And it'll serve. If you give it a sideways motion, it'll start spinning around.
There's no magic hand coming in there.
It is following the curvature of its space, time continuum.
This construct that you provided for it.
So now I can describe what gravity is doing.
I even have a mechanism for it. Are you going to still ask me?
Why is there gravity? Is that answered?
Not fulfilling enough to you? Even in the why department,
you can say, well, why would a particle curve space?
You can just keep doing that. That's fine.
But is there a point weirdly where you'll be satisfied with the answer? Oh,
that answers my, why I can say, well,
why did this half liter of water drop off the
edge here while it's no longer the forces are imbalanced? And it's a no,
but why did it fall? Well, there's nothing holding it up. Why did it?
There's a point where it's not especially productive to continue to think about
the world that way, because I, what I'm,
what I'm claiming is answers to the how,
when you understand the, how enough
are tantamount to having answered the why question, that's all,
that's what I'm telling you about in terms.
Of the ability to measure it and accurately use it.
Correct. So we can say, okay, you got a Barrhead. We can say, well,
why did you go bald? Well, okay. The hair follicles at,
when you start in your late twenties and early, when did you go bald?
When do you start losing your hair? Probably late twenties. Early thirties.
Yeah. That's that's common. If you, if you have your hair, when you're 30,
you'll probably have it for the rest of your life. That's how that goes.
You start losing it up, right. Going up until you're 30. So you can say, well,
the hair follicle begins does not produce any of the keratin or whatever.
We get the explanation. Then you say, well,
why does the hair follicles stop doing that? Then you say, oh, well,
because the DNA has a pre-coded about the hair, kind of the liver.
Well, why does the DNA have the hair? Well, because so.
Right.
But we know far more about how and why people go bald than we
do about what gravity really is.
Yes. Correct. I'm telling you,
gravity really is the curvature of space and time.
That gets us the big bang and everything we've ever known.
Time, but it's also based on mass, right? It's based on the amount of.
Situation of matter and energy and or energy will curve the fabric of space and
time and the movement of matter on that
fabric of space and time we call gravity.
And I'm good with that. Okay.
But you seem a little oddly defensive about something that scientific.
No, I have to say I'm good with, but you, you.
You are cause you kind of defending it. No.
You can say, well, defend does matter. You need to know why,
Why does it know what I'm saying?
Why does matter and energy curve,
the fabric of space and time you can ask that. Okay. Why? And I,
I don't have an answer for that. I can say, well, that's all I'm asking. Well,
no, but what I'm telling you is, okay,
you don't need to know what got you to the point. Right?
We had to walk to that point where your why got
unanswered. I understand that.
But before we got.
To that point, I answered otherwise.
But I'm not disputing.
That. Good. Good.
So what I'm telling you is that I can answer your why question most of the time,
but then you'll come back to a point where there's a point where there's the,
Y doesn't have the answer. So you say, why did it fall and say,
there's a force of gravity operating on it. Why didn't fall that way?
Because of the curvature of space and time I'm answering your why's.
I understand then why does matter and energy, Kurt space and time.
Okay. That's a frontier. We're still working on that, but that's all I'm asking.
That's good. That's fine. You are a man of science. So you,
you are a person that should probably embrace wise.
Except many people who ask why questions they're really want to know purpose.
Not asking purpose.
Well, then that distinguishes you from many other people who ask why questions.
Oh, okay. I.
Don't think, I don't know if there's.
Gap. Why did you bang the table? I was angry. There's purpose.
There's a purpose behind it. Okay. So, so yeah. So if your,
why is just a curiosity of what's going on? That's one thing,
if you are inquiring about purpose, then you get to theological. Okay.
Because when you're theological, then religions give purpose to life.
Clearly I'm not doing that. Right.
But I just think it's amazing that something that's such a massive
part of life on this planet that we stayed glued to the
ground because of gravity.
Can you pull up my Instagram account? That I only posts.
The Instagram account now, because you had a fake one for awhile.
I took it online. Actually. I know the guy, I took it over. He gave me.
Oh, do the guy who had it? Yeah, no, no, no, no. I actually, I, sorry.
I went to Instagram said, people think this is a real account and it's not,
can I have it back? And if it's an account,
that's an imposter and followers don't know it it's illegal. Right.
So, uh, so there's,
there's one that says fan of Neil Tyson and that's a different one. Okay.
So I only post art house photos. Okay. That I've taken most of which I've taken.
So just scroll down and look for muscle beach. There it is. Click on that.
Okay. So here's my CA go to my caption, go full screen on that.
Remember my Kevin. Okay. For most of our life on earth,
we either resist or succumb to the force of gravity at muscle
beach. Gravity loses every time.
Of the punch room.
I was proud of that. Caption. You go, you call me.
Out on that caption that's nonsense.
Gravity never loses gravity. Doesn't even have like little tiny losses.
It's not like there's a war.
He loses a battle, was just listening to this. So I was at, I was in Venice,
California, and the sun was setting behind some guy who was doing,
who was doing, uh, uh, uh, hand pressed hand presses,
suspended up on his chin up bar. Right. And it was real. So it was cool.
He was silhouetted. There's a Palm tree. There's the beach. He's.
There. Gravity is going to beat that. Let me tell you eventually.
But while he is, while he's there, he's conquering gravity.
Are you getting too old? You haven't conquered gravity lately. No.
I work out all the time. I'm not buying it. No, I ain't concrete.
Yeah. He's pulling rank now. He said I work out and you don't.
Cause I see your middle-aged man belly.
Um, well, when I've talked to other astrophysicists and science.
Are these conversations supposed to have like a theme or a purpose or is it just
you sit there and just whatever comes to your head, you send my way.
Yeah. Well clearly it's just whatever comes to mind.
How do you say this episode is about you? Can't say that I don't ever do that.
You don't do that. Okay, fine. That's just episode number two. My.
Success is that.
You've got no obligation, no commitments.
I have a thread. Think about all the different people that,
of course it's like impossible, of course,
fighters and scientists and scholars and crackpots,
a bunch of different people coming through here, man. I can't have any agenda.
I mean, that's probably the only reason why this thing is successful as it is,
but that's a weird one for people that this one thing that is so powerful.
What is.
Oh gravity. That's a weird one for people.
Yeah. I mean, it seems like.
You're frustrated by all the various questions. I was like, no,
you seem a little, a little defensive there.
I thought you were taking your why to ultimately mean purpose.
If it's just why I'm claiming that many responses to
how are also responses to a Y that that's,
that's the point I'm making. And I don't like splitting definitions.
We'll ultimately understand gravity.
I think we do. That's why we can land things on Mars. We understand what we do,
which is why your cell phone gets time from GPS
satellites that is pre corrected for Einstein's general theory of relativity.
Cause you're in a different gravitational field than you in orbit.
Then you are on earth surface. We got this angry.